---
title: "WiFi controlled bird feeding mechanism"
date: 2021-10-01 10:00:00 +0200
categories: [outdoor, arduino, esp, wifi]
tags: [outdoor, arduino, esp, wifi]
image: /assets/img/bird.jpg

---

# WiFi controlled bird feeding mechanism!

In this project I built a wifi controlled live birdcam with an esp32cam and an arduino. I was inspired by this video from sweden, where a man had trained magpies in his garden to return bottle caps for peanuts. Before getting to this however, I had to build a network controlled, bird controller with a webcam on it.

Unlike my inspiration project, which was running on a raspberry pi, I wanted to use more affordable technology. This lead to  challenges with the hardware, but in the end I got it to work the way I wanted to.

Inspiration for this project came from this youtube video
{% include embed/youtube.html id='LJG3282QU4g' %}

## Components

- ESP32-CAM Development Board
- Arduino Uno R3 Microcontroller
- L298N Motor Driver Shield
- DC Motor with Eccentric Mass
- Custom 3D Printed Components:
  - Motor Mount
  - Feed Dispenser
  - Housing
- Light Sensors (LDR)
- Wooden Base

## Learning

This project taught me a lot about esp32cam debugging. I tried various different methods, because for the esp32cam I needed not just the video, but also a few GPIO pins for remote control of the feeder. In the end i ended up settling for ESPHome assistant. I learned about how to make compromises when working with limited hardware. I also learned about the challenges of building a reliable feeder. It was surprisingly hard to make a nut feeder that would not get stuck.

## Future improvements.
Due to season changes this project got put on halt, and has yet to be revived :D


## Demo video
{% include embed/youtube.html id='h4K9WKY_asw' %}